docs/shortcuts.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Keyboard Shortcuts
---

# Keyboard Shortcuts

SF Tabs supports keyboard shortcuts for quick access to your first 10 custom tabs. This page explains how to set up and use these shortcuts.

## Table of contents

- [Available Shortcuts](#available-shortcuts)
- [Setting Up Shortcuts in Firefox](#setting-up-shortcuts-in-firefox)
- [Setting Up Shortcuts in Chrome](#setting-up-shortcuts-in-chrome)
- [Best Practices](#best-practices)
- [Organizing Your Tabs for Shortcuts](#organizing-your-tabs-for-shortcuts)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Tips & Tricks](#tips--tricks)


## Available Shortcuts

SF Tabs provides 10 keyboard shortcut commands that correspond to your first 10 tabs:

| Command | Default Key | Opens |
|:--------|:------------|:------|
| Tab 1   | Not set     | Your first tab (position 0) |
| Tab 2   | Not set     | Your second tab (position 1) |
| Tab 3   | Not set     | Your third tab (position 2) |
| Tab 4   | Not set     | Your fourth tab (position 3) |
| Tab 5   | Not set     | Your fifth tab (position 4) |
| Tab 6   | Not set     | Your sixth tab (position 5) |
| Tab 7   | Not set     | Your seventh tab (position 6) |
| Tab 8   | Not set     | Your eighth tab (position 7) |
| Tab 9   | Not set     | Your ninth tab (position 8) |
| Tab 10  | Not set     | Your tenth tab (position 9) |

By default, no keyboard shortcuts are assigned. You must configure them manually in your browser settings.


## Setting Up Shortcuts in Firefox

<img width="686" height="614" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-24 at 3 14 10 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e9370e17-2c71-4641-8c07-7e429cb611b0" />


1. **Open Add-ons Manager**
   Type `about:addons` in the address bar and press Enter

2. **Access Keyboard Shortcuts**
   Click the gear icon (⚙️) in the top right and select "Manage Extension Shortcuts"

3. **Find SF Tabs**
   Scroll down to find SF Tabs in the list of extensions

4. **Configure Shortcuts**
   Click in the input field next to each command (e.g., "Tab 1") and press your desired key combination

5. **Save Automatically**
   Your shortcuts are saved automatically as you configure them

### Recommended Firefox Shortcuts

| Tab | Suggested Shortcut | Notes |
|:----|:-------------------|:------|
| Tab 1 | `Ctrl+Shift+1` (or `Cmd+Shift+1` on Mac) | Easy to remember and type |
| Tab 2 | `Ctrl+Shift+2` (or `Cmd+Shift+2` on Mac) | Follows natural numbering |
| Tab 3-10 | `Ctrl+Shift+3` through `Ctrl+Shift+0` | Continue the pattern |


## Setting Up Shortcuts in Chrome
<img width="701" height="752" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-24 at 3 18 25 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/90d7953a-5d61-4e98-a1bf-8a4e941ea459" />

1. **Open Extensions Shortcuts**
   Type `chrome://extensions/shortcuts` in the address bar and press Enter

2. **Find SF Tabs**
   Scroll down to find SF Tabs in the list of extensions

3. **Click the Pencil Icon**
   Click the pencil/edit icon next to each command you want to configure

4. **Enter Your Shortcut**
   Press your desired key combination in the input field

5. **Save**
   Click outside the field or press Enter to save

### Recommended Chrome Shortcuts

| Tab | Suggested Shortcut | Notes |
|:----|:-------------------|:------|
| Tab 1 | `Ctrl+Shift+1` (or `Cmd+Shift+1` on Mac) | Easy to remember and type |
| Tab 2 | `Ctrl+Shift+2` (or `Cmd+Shift+2` on Mac) | Follows natural numbering |
| Tab 3-10 | `Ctrl+Shift+3` through `Ctrl+Shift+0` | Continue the pattern |


## Best Practices

### Choosing Key Combinations

- **Use modifier keys:** Always include Ctrl/Cmd and/or Shift to avoid conflicts with existing shortcuts
- **Be consistent:** Use a pattern like `Ctrl+Shift+[Number]` for all your tabs
- **Avoid conflicts:** Check that your chosen shortcuts don't conflict with browser or Salesforce shortcuts
- **Consider frequency:** Assign shortcuts to your most frequently used tabs first

### Common Key Combination Conflicts to Avoid

| Shortcut | Existing Function | Browser |
|:---------|:------------------|:--------|
| `Ctrl+1` through `Ctrl+9` | Switch to browser tab 1-9 | Both |
| `Ctrl+T` | New tab | Both |
| `Ctrl+W` | Close tab | Both |
| `Ctrl+N` | New window | Both |


## Organizing Your Tabs for Shortcuts

Since shortcuts correspond to tab positions, organize your tabs strategically:

1. **Identify your most-used pages**
   Determine which Setup pages you visit most frequently

2. **Reorder tabs in the extension**
   Drag and drop your most important tabs to positions 1-10

3. **Assign shortcuts**
   Configure keyboard shortcuts for these priority tabs

4. **Test and adjust**
   Use your shortcuts for a few days and reorder as needed

### Example Organization

Here's an example of how you might organize tabs for optimal shortcut usage:

| Position | Tab Name | Shortcut | Why |
|:---------|:---------|:---------|:----|
| 1 | Flows | `Ctrl+Shift+1` | Most frequently accessed |
| 2 | Users | `Ctrl+Shift+2` | Second most common |
| 3 | Profiles | `Ctrl+Shift+3` | Regular maintenance |
| 4 | Permission Sets | `Ctrl+Shift+4` | Security configuration |
| 5 | Custom Metadata | `Ctrl+Shift+5` | Development work |


## Troubleshooting

### Shortcut doesn't work

- Make sure you're on a Salesforce page when pressing the shortcut
- Verify the shortcut is configured correctly in browser settings
- Check that you have a tab at that position (e.g., Tab 5 won't work if you only have 4 tabs)
- Ensure the shortcut doesn't conflict with another extension or browser function

### Can't set a shortcut

- The key combination may be reserved by the browser
- Try a different combination with more modifier keys (e.g., `Ctrl+Alt+Shift+1`)
- Some keys may be restricted by your operating system

### Shortcut opens wrong tab

- Remember that shortcuts correspond to tab positions (0-9), not tab IDs
- If you reorder tabs, the shortcuts will open different pages
- Check the extension popup to see which tab is in which position


## Tips & Tricks

### Power User Workflow

1. Create tabs for your 5-10 most common Setup pages
2. Order them by frequency of use
3. Assign shortcuts to the top 5 tabs
4. Use shortcuts for quick navigation, popup for less frequent tabs

### Team Standardization

If your team shares a configuration file, document recommended shortcuts so everyone uses the same key combinations. This makes it easier to help each other and share tips.

### Muscle Memory

It takes about 2-3 weeks of regular use to build muscle memory for keyboard shortcuts. Be patient and keep using them!

Commit message:

Additional screenshots for Shortcuts
Added instructions for accessing the Keyboard Shortcuts page.

docs/shortcuts.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Keyboard Shortcuts
---

# Keyboard Shortcuts

SF Tabs supports keyboard shortcuts for quick access to your first 10 custom tabs. This page explains how to set up and use these shortcuts.

## Table of contents

- [Available Shortcuts](#available-shortcuts)
- [Setting Up Shortcuts in Firefox](#setting-up-shortcuts-in-firefox)
- [Setting Up Shortcuts in Chrome](#setting-up-shortcuts-in-chrome)
- [Best Practices](#best-practices)
- [Organizing Your Tabs for Shortcuts](#organizing-your-tabs-for-shortcuts)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Tips & Tricks](#tips--tricks)


## Available Shortcuts

SF Tabs provides 10 keyboard shortcut commands that correspond to your first 10 tabs:

| Command | Default Key | Opens |
|:--------|:------------|:------|
| Tab 1   | Not set     | Your first tab (position 0) |
| Tab 2   | Not set     | Your second tab (position 1) |
| Tab 3   | Not set     | Your third tab (position 2) |
| Tab 4   | Not set     | Your fourth tab (position 3) |
| Tab 5   | Not set     | Your fifth tab (position 4) |
| Tab 6   | Not set     | Your sixth tab (position 5) |
| Tab 7   | Not set     | Your seventh tab (position 6) |
| Tab 8   | Not set     | Your eighth tab (position 7) |
| Tab 9   | Not set     | Your ninth tab (position 8) |
| Tab 10  | Not set     | Your tenth tab (position 9) |

By default, no keyboard shortcuts are assigned. You must configure them manually in your browser settings.

You can quickly access the Keyboard Shortcuts page by opening SF Tabs' Settings page and clicking 
on **Configure Keyboard Shortcuts**. 

<img width="782" height="188" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-24 at 3 21 08 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3428e215-c181-423e-afa1-57bfba348e6c" />


## Setting Up Shortcuts in Firefox

<img width="686" height="614" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-24 at 3 14 10 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e9370e17-2c71-4641-8c07-7e429cb611b0" />


1. **Open Add-ons Manager**
   Type `about:addons` in the address bar and press Enter

2. **Access Keyboard Shortcuts**
   Click the gear icon (⚙️) in the top right and select "Manage Extension Shortcuts"

3. **Find SF Tabs**
   Scroll down to find SF Tabs in the list of extensions

4. **Configure Shortcuts**
   Click in the input field next to each command (e.g., "Tab 1") and press your desired key combination

5. **Save Automatically**
   Your shortcuts are saved automatically as you configure them

### Recommended Firefox Shortcuts

| Tab | Suggested Shortcut | Notes |
|:----|:-------------------|:------|
| Tab 1 | `Ctrl+Shift+1` (or `Cmd+Shift+1` on Mac) | Easy to remember and type |
| Tab 2 | `Ctrl+Shift+2` (or `Cmd+Shift+2` on Mac) | Follows natural numbering |
| Tab 3-10 | `Ctrl+Shift+3` through `Ctrl+Shift+0` | Continue the pattern |


## Setting Up Shortcuts in Chrome
<img width="701" height="752" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-24 at 3 18 25 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/90d7953a-5d61-4e98-a1bf-8a4e941ea459" />

1. **Open Extensions Shortcuts**
   Type `chrome://extensions/shortcuts` in the address bar and press Enter

2. **Find SF Tabs**
   Scroll down to find SF Tabs in the list of extensions

3. **Click the Pencil Icon**
   Click the pencil/edit icon next to each command you want to configure

4. **Enter Your Shortcut**
   Press your desired key combination in the input field

5. **Save**
   Click outside the field or press Enter to save

### Recommended Chrome Shortcuts

| Tab | Suggested Shortcut | Notes |
|:----|:-------------------|:------|
| Tab 1 | `Ctrl+Shift+1` (or `Cmd+Shift+1` on Mac) | Easy to remember and type |
| Tab 2 | `Ctrl+Shift+2` (or `Cmd+Shift+2` on Mac) | Follows natural numbering |
| Tab 3-10 | `Ctrl+Shift+3` through `Ctrl+Shift+0` | Continue the pattern |


## Best Practices

### Choosing Key Combinations

- **Use modifier keys:** Always include Ctrl/Cmd and/or Shift to avoid conflicts with existing shortcuts
- **Be consistent:** Use a pattern like `Ctrl+Shift+[Number]` for all your tabs
- **Avoid conflicts:** Check that your chosen shortcuts don't conflict with browser or Salesforce shortcuts
- **Consider frequency:** Assign shortcuts to your most frequently used tabs first

### Common Key Combination Conflicts to Avoid

| Shortcut | Existing Function | Browser |
|:---------|:------------------|:--------|
| `Ctrl+1` through `Ctrl+9` | Switch to browser tab 1-9 | Both |
| `Ctrl+T` | New tab | Both |
| `Ctrl+W` | Close tab | Both |
| `Ctrl+N` | New window | Both |


## Organizing Your Tabs for Shortcuts

Since shortcuts correspond to tab positions, organize your tabs strategically:

1. **Identify your most-used pages**
   Determine which Setup pages you visit most frequently

2. **Reorder tabs in the extension**
   Drag and drop your most important tabs to positions 1-10

3. **Assign shortcuts**
   Configure keyboard shortcuts for these priority tabs

4. **Test and adjust**
   Use your shortcuts for a few days and reorder as needed

### Example Organization

Here's an example of how you might organize tabs for optimal shortcut usage:

| Position | Tab Name | Shortcut | Why |
|:---------|:---------|:---------|:----|
| 1 | Flows | `Ctrl+Shift+1` | Most frequently accessed |
| 2 | Users | `Ctrl+Shift+2` | Second most common |
| 3 | Profiles | `Ctrl+Shift+3` | Regular maintenance |
| 4 | Permission Sets | `Ctrl+Shift+4` | Security configuration |
| 5 | Custom Metadata | `Ctrl+Shift+5` | Development work |


## Troubleshooting

### Shortcut doesn't work

- Make sure you're on a Salesforce page when pressing the shortcut
- Verify the shortcut is configured correctly in browser settings
- Check that you have a tab at that position (e.g., Tab 5 won't work if you only have 4 tabs)
- Ensure the shortcut doesn't conflict with another extension or browser function

### Can't set a shortcut

- The key combination may be reserved by the browser
- Try a different combination with more modifier keys (e.g., `Ctrl+Alt+Shift+1`)
- Some keys may be restricted by your operating system

### Shortcut opens wrong tab

- Remember that shortcuts correspond to tab positions (0-9), not tab IDs
- If you reorder tabs, the shortcuts will open different pages
- Check the extension popup to see which tab is in which position


## Tips & Tricks

### Power User Workflow

1. Create tabs for your 5-10 most common Setup pages
2. Order them by frequency of use
3. Assign shortcuts to the top 5 tabs
4. Use shortcuts for quick navigation, popup for less frequent tabs

### Team Standardization

If your team shares a configuration file, document recommended shortcuts so everyone uses the same key combinations. This makes it easier to help each other and share tips.

### Muscle Memory

It takes about 2-3 weeks of regular use to build muscle memory for keyboard shortcuts. Be patient and keep using them!
